### Commodity Floating Leg

A commodity floating leg is specified in a `LegData` node with `LegType`
set to `CommodityFloating`. It is used to define a sequence of cashflows
that are linked to the price of a given commodity. Each cashflow has an
associated *Calculation Period*. The price that is being referenced may
be a commodity spot price or a commodity future contract settlement
price. The cashflow may depend on the price observed on a single
*Pricing Date* in the *Calculation Period* or it may depend on the
arithmetic average of the prices over some or all of the business days
in the *Calculation Period*.

The outline of a commodity floating leg is given in listing
<a href="#lst:commodityfloatingleg" data-reference-type="ref"
data-reference="lst:commodityfloatingleg">[lst:commodityfloatingleg]</a>.
It has the usual `LegData` elements described in section
<a href="#ss:leg_data" data-reference-type="ref"
data-reference="ss:leg_data">[ss:leg_data]</a> and a
`CommodityFloatingLegData` node that is described in section
<a href="#ss:commodity_floating_leg_data" data-reference-type="ref"
data-reference="ss:commodity_floating_leg_data">0.0.3</a> below. Before
describing the `CommodityFloatingLegData` node, we devote section
<a href="#ss:commodity_schedules" data-reference-type="ref"
data-reference="ss:commodity_schedules">0.0.2</a> to the `ScheduleData`
node in the context of commodity derivatives.

<div class="listing">

``` xml
<LegData>
  <LegType>CommodityFloating</LegType>
  <Payer>...</Payer>
  <Currency>...</Currency>
  <PaymentConvention>...</PaymentConvention>
  <PaymentLag>...</PaymentLag>
  <PaymentCalendar>...</PaymentCalendar>
  <ScheduleData>
    ...
  </ScheduleData>
  <PaymentDates>
    <PaymentDate>...</PaymentDate>
  </PaymentDates>
  <CommodityFloatingLegData>
    ...
  </CommodityFloatingLegData>
</LegData>
```

</div>

### Commodity Schedules

The *Calculation Period* in a commodity derivative contract is in
general specified as a period from and including a given *Start Date* to
and including a given *End Date*. A commodity trade leg consists of a
sequence of these *Calculation Period*s. It is important to set up the
`ScheduleData` in the trade XML such that these periods are correctly
represented in the ORE instrument. The `ScheduleData` allows for the
creation of a list of dates that define the boundaries of the periods
from the trade *Effective Date* to the trade *Termination Date*. When
the `ScheduleData` is used on a commodity leg in the ORE trade XML, the
`StartDate` is included in the first period and the `EndDate` is
included in the final period. Each intervening date generated by the
`ScheduleData` is understood to be the included end date of a period
with the subsequent period beginning on the day after the intervening
date. The following two examples illustrate the set up of the
`ScheduleData`.

A common commodity derivative schedule is one that has monthly periods
running from and including the first calendar day in the month to and
including the last calendar day in the month. For example, the contract
periods may be specified as shown in table
<a href="#tab:comm_schedule_monthly" data-reference-type="ref"
data-reference="tab:comm_schedule_monthly">1</a>. The corresponding
`ScheduleData` node that should be used to represent this in ORE XML is
shown in listing
<a href="#lst:comm_schedule_monthly" data-reference-type="ref"
data-reference="lst:comm_schedule_monthly">[lst:comm_schedule_monthly]</a>.
Note that `Convention` and `TermConvention` are set to `Unadjusted` and
`EndOfMonth` is set to `true` to place all dates at the end of the month
when generating the dates `Backward` from 30 Apr 2020. In general, these
values should be used when generating monthly periods for commodity
derivatives.

<div id="tab:comm_schedule_monthly">

| Start Date |  End Date  |
|:----------:|:----------:|
| 2020-01-01 | 2020-01-31 |
| 2020-02-01 | 2020-02-29 |
| 2020-03-01 | 2020-03-31 |
| 2020-04-01 | 2020-04-30 |

Commodity derivative monthly schedule.

</div>

<div class="listing">

``` xml
<ScheduleData>
  <Rules>
    <StartDate>2020-01-01</StartDate>
    <EndDate>2020-04-30</EndDate>
    <Tenor>1M</Tenor>
    <Calendar>NullCalendar</Calendar>
    <Convention>Unadjusted</Convention>
    <TermConvention>Unadjusted</TermConvention>
    <Rule>Backward</Rule>
    <EndOfMonth>true</EndOfMonth>
    <AdjustEndDateToPreviousMonthEnd>false</AdjustEndDateToPreviousMonthEnd>
  </Rules>
</ScheduleData>
```

</div>

Note that for fixed and floating commodity legs, the
AdjustEndDateToPreviousMonthEnd field can be added to automatically
adjust the end date to the end of the previous month:

`AdjustEndDateToPreviousMonthEnd` \[Optional\]: Only relevant for
commodity legs. Allows for the `EndDate` to be on a date other than the
end of the month. If set to *true* the given `EndDate` is restated to
the end date to the end of previous month.

Allowable values: *true* or *false*. Defaults to false if left blank or
omitted.

In certain cases, a sequence of periods may be provided which do not fit
within the `Rules` provided by `ScheduleData`. In this case, one may use
the `Dates` node provided by `ScheduleData`. As an example of such a
case, consider table
<a href="#tab:comm_schedule_explicit" data-reference-type="ref"
data-reference="tab:comm_schedule_explicit">2</a> which shows the
periods for a commodity swap leg on the arithmetic average of the nearby
month NYMEX WTI future contract settlement price. In this example, the
*Calculation Period* runs from the day after the previous future
contract expiry to and including the nearby month’s contract expiry. In
this case, we need to use explicit dates as shown in listing
<a href="#lst:comm_schedule_explicit" data-reference-type="ref"
data-reference="lst:comm_schedule_explicit">[lst:comm_schedule_explicit]</a>.

<div id="tab:comm_schedule_explicit">

| Start Date |  End Date  |
|:----------:|:----------:|
| 2019-11-21 | 2019-12-19 |
| 2019-12-20 | 2020-01-21 |
| 2020-01-22 | 2020-02-20 |
| 2020-02-21 | 2020-03-20 |

Commodity derivative explicit schedule.

</div>

<div class="listing">

``` xml
<ScheduleData>
  <Dates>
    <Calendar>NullCalendar</Calendar>
    <Convention>Unadjusted</Convention>
    <Dates>
      <Date>2019-11-21</Date>
      <Date>2019-12-19</Date>
      <Date>2020-01-21</Date>
      <Date>2020-02-20</Date>
      <Date>2020-03-20</Date>
    </Dates>
  </Dates>
</ScheduleData>
```

</div>

### Commodity Floating Leg Data

The `CommodityFloatingLegData` node outline is shown in listing
<a href="#lst:commodity_floating_leg_data" data-reference-type="ref"
data-reference="lst:commodity_floating_leg_data">[lst:commodity_floating_leg_data]</a>.
The meaning and allowable values for each node are as follows:

- `Name`: An identifier specifying the commodity being referenced in the
  leg. Table <a href="#tab:commodity_data" data-reference-type="ref"
  data-reference="tab:commodity_data">[tab:commodity_data]</a> lists the
  allowable values for `Name` and gives a description.

- `PriceType`: It is *Spot* if the leg is referencing a commodity spot
  price. It is *FutureSettlement* if the leg is referencing a commodity
  future contract settlement price.

  Allowable values: *Spot*, *FutureSettlement*

- `Quantities`: This node is used to specify a constant quantity or a
  quantity that varies over the calculation periods. The usage of this
  node is analogous to the usage of the `Notionals` node as outlined in
  section <a href="#ss:leg_data" data-reference-type="ref"
  data-reference="ss:leg_data">[ss:leg_data]</a>.

  Each `Quantity` is the number of units of the underlying commodity
  covered by the transaction or calculation period. The unit type is
  defined in the underlying contract specs for the commodity name in
  question. For avoidance of doubt, the `Quantity` is the number of
  units of the underlying commodity, not the number of contracts.

- `CommodityQuantityFrequency` \[Optional\]: In some cases, the quantity
  in a commodity derivatives contract is given as a quantity per time
  period. This quantity is then multiplied by the number of such time
  periods in each calculation period to give the quantity relevant for
  that full calculation period. The `CommodityQuantityFrequency` can be
  set to

  - *PerCalculationPeriod*: This indicates that quantitie(s) as given
    are for the full calculation period and that no multiplication or
    alteration is required. This is the default setting if this node is
    omitted.

  - *PerPricingDay*: This indicates that the quantitie(s) are to be
    considered per pricing date. In general, this can be seen on
    averaging contracts where the quantity provided must be multiplied
    by the number of pricing dates in the averaging period to give the
    quantity applicable for the full calculation period i.e. the
    quantity to which the average price over the period is applied.

  - *PerHour*: This indicates that quantitie(s) are to be considered per
    hour. This is common in the electricity markets. The quantity then
    must be multiplied by the hours per day to give the quantity for a
    given pricing date. Also, if the contract is averaging, the
    resulting daily amount is multiplied by the number of pricing dates
    in the period to give the quantity for the full calculation period.
    Note that the hours per day may be specified in the `HoursPerDay`
    node directly. If it is omitted, it is looked up in the conventions
    associated with the commodity. If it is not found there and
    *PerHour* is used, an exception is thrown during trade building.

  - *PerCalendarDay*: This indicates that quantitie(s) are to be
    considered per calendar day in the period. In other words, the
    quantity provided is multiplied by the number of calendar days in
    the period to give the quantity applicable for the full calculation
    period.

  - *PerHourAndCalendarDay*: This indicates that quantitie(s) are to be
    considered per hour and per calendar day in the period. In other
    words, the quantity provided is multiplied by the number of calendar
    days and number of hours per day in the period to give the quantity
    applicable for the full calculation period. The number of hours per
    period is corrected by daylight saving hours as specified in the
    conventions of the commodity.

  Allowable values: *PerCalculationPeriod*, *PerPricingDay*, *PerHour*,
  *PerCalendarDay*, *PerHourAndCalendarDay*. Defaults to
  *PerCalculationPeriod* if omitted.

- `CommodityPayRelativeTo` \[Optional\]: The allowable values for this
  node are  
  `CalculationPeriodStartDate`, `CalculationPeriodEndDate`,
  `TerminationDate`, `FutureExpiryDate`. They specify whether payment is
  relative to the calculation period start date, calculation period end
  date, leg maturity date or the future expiry date (not allowed for
  averaging legs) respectively. The default is
  `CalculationPeriodEndDate`. The payment date is then further adjusted
  by the payment conventions outlined in section
  <a href="#ss:leg_data" data-reference-type="ref"
  data-reference="ss:leg_data">[ss:leg_data]</a>
  i.e. `PaymentConvention` and `PaymentLag`. If explicit payment dates
  are given via the `PaymentDates` node described in section
  <a href="#ss:leg_data" data-reference-type="ref"
  data-reference="ss:leg_data">[ss:leg_data]</a>, then those explicit
  payment dates are used instead and adjusted by the `PaymentCalendar`
  and `PaymentConvention`.

  Allowable values: *CalculationPeriodStartDate*,
  *CalculationPeriodEndDate*, *TerminationDate*. Defaults to
  *CalculationPeriodEndDate* if omitted.

- `Spreads` \[Optional\]: This node allows for the addition of an
  optional spread to the referenced commodity price in each calculation
  period. The usage of this node is exactly as described in section
  <a href="#ss:floatingleg_data" data-reference-type="ref"
  data-reference="ss:floatingleg_data">[ss:floatingleg_data]</a>, except
  that for a Commodity leg, the Spread is not a percentage but an amount
  in the currency the commodity is quoted in.

  Allowable values: Each child `Spread` element can take any real
  number. Defaults to zero spread in each calculation period if the
  `Spreads` node is omitted.

- `Gearings` \[Optional\]: This node allows for the multiplication of
  the referenced commodity price in each calculation period by an
  optional gearing factor. The usage of this node is exactly as
  described in section
  <a href="#ss:floatingleg_data" data-reference-type="ref"
  data-reference="ss:floatingleg_data">[ss:floatingleg_data]</a>. If the
  `Gearings` node is omitted, the gearing is one in each calculation
  period. Note that any spread is added to the referenced price before
  the gearing is applied.

- `PricingDateRule` \[Optional\]: The allowable values are
  *FutureExpiryDate* and *None*. This setting is ignored when
  `IsAveraged` is *true* or when `PriceType` is *Spot*. In particular,
  when there is no averaging and the leg is referencing a commodity
  future contract price, setting `PricingDateRule` to *FutureExpiryDate*
  ensures that the future contract price is observed on its expiry date
  i.e. that the *Pricing Date* is the future contract expiry date. The
  particular future contract being referenced is determined by the
  `IsInArrears` node and the `FutureMonthOffset` node. If `IsInArrears`
  is *true*, a base date is set as the calculation period end date. If
  `IsInArrears` is *false* a base date is set as the calculation period
  start date. The base date’s month and year is then possibly moved
  forward by an integral number of months using the `FutureMonthOffset`
  node value. If this node value is zero, the base date’s month and year
  are unchanged. The *Pricing Date* is then the expiry date of the
  future contract with base date month and base date year. Setting
  `PricingDateRule` to *None* allows the *Pricing Date* to be determined
  using the `PricingCalendar` and `PricingLag` below.

  Allowable values: *FutureExpiryDate*, *None*. Defaults to
  *FutureExpiryDate* if omitted.

- `PricingCalendar` \[Optional\]: This is the business day calendar used
  to determine pricing date(s) and in the application of the
  `PricingLag` if provided. If it is omitted, the calendar that has been
  set up for the reference commodity future contract or referenced
  commodity spot price will be used.

- `PricingLag` \[Optional\]: Any non-negative integer is allowed here.
  This node indicates that the *Pricing Date* is this number of business
  days before a given base date. The base date is the period start date
  if `IsInArrears` is *true* and it is the period end date if
  `IsInArrears` is *false*. This setting is not used when `IsAveraged`
  is *true*.

  Allowable values: Any non-negative integer. Defaults to zero if
  omitted.

- `PricingDates` \[Optional\]: This node is not used when `IsAveraged`
  is *true*. When `IsAveraged` is *false*, this node allows the *Pricing
  Date* in each period to be given an explicit value. If this node is
  included, it must contain the same number of `PricingDate` nodes as
  calculation periods. In general, this node is omitted but is used when
  the other options do not give the desired *Pricing Date* as specified
  in the trade’s contractual terms.

- `IsAveraged` \[Optional\]: This node is set to *true* if the *Floating
  Price* is the arithmetic average of the commodity reference price over
  each business day in the calculation period. This node is set to
  *false* if there is no averaging of the underlying commodity price.
  Note that `IsAveraged` must be set to *true* if the `Name` given
  references a future contract that is averaging itself. There is more
  on this below.

  Allowable values: *true*, *false*. Defaults to *false* if omitted.

- `IsInArrears` \[Optional\]: This node is not used when `IsAveraged` is
  *true*. Although, if the observed underlying is averaging itself,
  having `IsAveraged` set to *true* would be ignored with regards this
  node. As noted above, this setting determines a base date from which
  the *Pricing Date* is determined. The base date is the period end date
  if `IsInArrears` is *true* and it is the period start date if
  `IsInArrears` is `false`. How the *Pricing Date* is then determined
  from this base date is determined by the `PricingDateRule` node or the
  `PricingCalendar` and `PricingLag` nodes.

  Allowable values: *true*, *false*. Defaults to *true* if omitted.

- `FutureMonthOffset` \[Optional\]: This node allows any non-negative
  integer value. If this node is omitted, it is set to zero. The node
  has a different usage depending on whether `IsAveraged` is *true* or
  *false*:

  - If `IsAveraged` is *true*, this node indicates which future contract
    is being referenced on each *Pricing Date* in the calculation period
    by acting as an offset from the next available expiry date. If
    `FutureMonthOffset` is zero, the settlement price of the next
    available monthly contract that has not expired with respect to the
    *Pricing Date* is used as the price on that *Pricing Date*. If
    `FutureMonthOffset` is one, the settlement price of the second
    available monthly contract that has not expired with respect to the
    *Pricing Date* is used as the price on that *Pricing Date*.
    Similarly for other positive values of `FutureMonthOffset`.

  - If `IsAveraged` is *false*, this node acts as an offset for the
    contract month and is used in conjunction with the `IsInArrears`
    setting to determine the future contract being referenced. If
    `IsInArrears` is `true`, a base date is set as the calculation
    period end date. If `IsInArrears` is *false*, a base date is set as
    the calculation period start date. If `FutureMonthOffset` is zero,
    the future contract month and year is taken as the base date’s month
    and year. If `FutureMonthOffset` is one, the future contract month
    and year is taken as the month following the base date’s month and
    year and so on for all positive values of `FutureMonthOffset`.

- `DeliveryRollDays` \[Optional\]: This node allows any non-negative
  integer value and is only applicable when `IsAveraged` is *true*. When
  averaging a commodity future contract price during a calculation
  period, where the calculation period includes the contract expiry
  date, this node’s value indicates when we should begin using the next
  future contract prices in the averaging. If the value is zero, we
  should include the contract prices up to and including the contract
  expiry. If the value is one, we should include the contract prices up
  to and including the day that is one business day before the contract
  expiry and then switch to using the next contract prices thereafter.
  Similarly for other non-negative integer values.

  Allowable values: Any non-negative integer. Defaults to zero if
  omitted.

- `IncludePeriodEnd` \[Optional\]: If this node is set to *true*, the
  period end date is included in the calculation period. If it is set to
  *false*, the period end date is excluded from the calculation period.
  There is more about this in the section
  <a href="#ss:commodity_schedules" data-reference-type="ref"
  data-reference="ss:commodity_schedules">0.0.2</a>. If this node is
  omitted, it is set to *true*. In general, this node should be omitted
  and allowed to take its default value.

- `ExcludePeriodStart` \[Optional\]: If this node is set to *true*, the
  period start date is excluded from the calculation period. If it is
  set to *false*, the period start date is included from the calculation
  period. There is more about this in the section
  <a href="#ss:commodity_schedules" data-reference-type="ref"
  data-reference="ss:commodity_schedules">0.0.2</a>. If this node is
  omitted, it is set to *true*. In general, this node should be omitted
  and allowed to take its default value.

- `HoursPerDay` \[Optional\]: This node is used if
  `CommodityQuantityFrequency` is set to *PerHour* or
  *PerHourAndCalendarDay*. It is described above under
  `CommodityQuantityFrequency`.

  Allowable values: A number between 0 and 24. If omitted it defaults to
  the value of the `HoursPerDay` node in the conventions for the
  referenced commodity.

- `UseBusinessDays` \[Optional\]: A boolean flag that defaults to *true*
  if omitted. It is not applicable if `IsAveraged` is *false*. When set
  to *true*, the pricing dates in the averaging period are the set of
  `PricingCalendar` good business days. When set to `false`, the pricing
  dates in the averaging period are the complement of the set of
  `PricingCalendar` good business days. This may be useful in certain
  situations. For example, the contract ICE PW2 with specifications
  [here](https://www.theice.com/products/71090520/PJM-Western-Hub-Real-Time-Peak-2x16-Fixed-Price-Future)
  averages the PJM Western Hub locational marginal prices over each day
  in the averaging period that is a Saturday, Sunday or NERC holiday.
  So, in this case, `UseBusinessDays` would be *false* and
  `PricingCalendar` would be `US-NERC` to generate the correct pricing
  dates in the averaging period.

  Allowable values: *true*, *false*. Defaults to *true* if omitted.

- `UnrealisedQuantity` \[Optional\]: A boolean flag that defaults to
  *false* if omitted. This is a rarely used flag. When set to *true*, it
  allows the user, on a given valuation date, to enter the current
  period quantity as an amount remaining in the current period after the
  valuation date i.e. the unrealised portion of the current period’s
  quantity. This unrealised quantity is then scaled up internally to
  give the quantity over the full period.

  Allowable values: *true*, *false*. Defaults to *false* if omitted.

- `LastNDays` \[Optional\]: This node allows a positive integer value
  less than or equal to 31 and is currently only supported when
  `PriceType` is `FutureSettlement`. When included, instead of the
  commodity future price being observed on the single *Pricing Date* in
  the period, it is observed on the `LastNDays` *Pricing Date*s, up to
  and including the original *Pricing Date*, for which future settlement
  prices are available.

- `Tag` \[Optional\]: This node takes any string and can be used to link
  the floating leg with a fixed leg that has not explicitly provided its
  own quantities. This can be useful in situations where the quantities
  on the floating leg are specified with a `CommodityQuantityFrequency`
  that is not simply `PerCalculationPeriod`. The fixed leg does not have
  the `CommodityQuantityFrequency` field. In these cases, the fixed leg
  can omit its `Quantities` node and take the quantities from the
  floating leg. This `Tag` node allows the fixed leg to link to a
  specific floating leg if there is more than one floating leg on the
  trade i.e. the fixed leg must just have the same `Tag`. The link is
  also used to set the payment dates of the fixed leg if
  CommodityPayRelativeTo is set to FutureExpiryDate.

- `DailyExpiryOffset` \[Optional\]: This node allows any non-negative
  integer value. It only has effect the underlying commodity `Name` is
  not being averaged and has a daily contract frequency.

  If this node is omitted, it defaults to zero. This node indicates
  which future contract is being referenced on each *Pricing Date* by
  acting as a business day offset, using the commodity `Name`’s expiry
  calendar, from the *Pricing Date*. It is useful e.g. in the base
  metals market where a future contract on each *Pricing Date* is the
  cash contract on that *Pricing Date* i.e. the contract with expiry
  date two business days after the *Pricing Date*. In this case, the
  `DailyExpiryOffset` would be set to `2`.

- `FXIndex` \[Optional\]: If `IsAveraged` is *true* this node allows the
  fx conversion to be applied daily in the computation of averaged cash
  flows. It cannot be used with the `Indexing` node.

  Allowable values: See Table
  <a href="#tab:fxindex_data" data-reference-type="ref"
  data-reference="tab:fxindex_data">[tab:fxindex_data]</a> for supported
  fx indices.

- `AvgPricePrecision` \[Optional\]: This is only applicable when
  averaging is enabled. Allowed values: non-negative integer. Specifies
  the number of decimal places to which the average price should be
  rounded.

<div class="listing">

``` xml
<CommodityFloatingLegData>
  <Name>...</Name>
  <PriceType>...</PriceType>
  <Quantities>
    <Quantity>...</Quantity>
  </Quantities>
  <CommodityQuantityFrequency>...</CommodityQuantityFrequency>
  <CommodityPayRelativeTo>...</CommodityPayRelativeTo>
  <Spreads>
    <Spread>...</Spread>
  </Spreads>
  <Gearings>
    <Gearing>...</Gearing>
  </Gearings>
  <PricingDateRule>...</PricingDateRule>
  <PricingCalendar>...</PricingCalendar>
  <PricingLag>...</PricingLag>
  <PricingDates>
    <PricingDate>...</PricingDate>
  </PricingDates>
  <IsAveraged>...</IsAveraged>
  <IsInArrears>...</IsInArrears>
  <FutureMonthOffset>...</FutureMonthOffset>
  <DeliveryRollDays>...</DeliveryRollDays>
  <IncludePeriodEnd>...</IncludePeriodEnd>
  <ExcludePeriodStart>...</ExcludePeriodStart>
  <HoursPerDay>...</HoursPerDay>
  <UseBusinessDays>...</UseBusinessDays>
  <Tag>...</Tag>
  <DailyExpiryOffset>...</DailyExpiryOffset>
</CommodityFloatingLegData>
```

</div>

We note above that `IsAveraged` must be set to *true* if the `Name`
given references a future contract that is averaging itself. For the
avoidance of doubt, this does not lead to the prices of the averaging
future contract being averaged in each calculation period. Instead, a
check is performed in the code if the contract defined by `Name` is
averaging, and if the leg itself is averaging we switch to observing the
averaging future contract price on the single *Pricing Date* determined
by the `PricingDateRule` node or the `PricingCalendar` and `PricingLag`
nodes or the `PricingDates` node. This is best illustrated using an
example. Suppose that we have a commodity swap with the schedule shown
in table <a href="#tab:comm_ex_swap_schedule" data-reference-type="ref"
data-reference="tab:comm_ex_swap_schedule">3</a>. Suppose that the
*Floating Price* for the swap is specified as *For each Calculation
Period, the arithmetic average of the Commodity Reference Price, for
each Commodity Business Day in the Calculation Period* and that the
*Commodity Reference Price* is specified as *OIL-WTI-NYMEX* with
*Delivery Date* of *First Nearby Month*. There are two approaches to
setting up the XML for this commodity floating leg:

1.  The first approach is shown in listing
    <a href="#lst:example_ave_floating_leg_1" data-reference-type="ref"
    data-reference="lst:example_ave_floating_leg_1">[lst:example_ave_floating_leg_1]</a>.
    Note that the `Name` is `NYMEX:CL` to indicate the NYMEX WTI future
    contract, `IsAveraged` is `true` and `FutureMonthOffset` is `0` to
    indicate that we are using the nearby month contract price in the
    averaging. This approach is clear.

2.  The second approach is to use the `CommodityFloatingLegData` shown
    in listing
    <a href="#lst:example_ave_floating_leg_2" data-reference-type="ref"
    data-reference="lst:example_ave_floating_leg_2">[lst:example_ave_floating_leg_2]</a>.
    Note that we have changed the `Name` to `NYMEX:CSX` to reference the
    NYMEX WTI Financial Futures contract. This future contract
    settlement price at expiry is the exact payoff of the swap leg in
    that it is the arithmetic average of the nearby month NYMEX WTI
    future contract settlement prices over the calendar month. The
    contract details are given
    [here](https://www.cmegroup.com/trading/energy/crude-oil/west-texas-intermediate-wti-crude-oil-calendar-swap-futures_contract_specifications.html).
    We keep `IsAveraged` set to `true`. If we set `IsAveraged` to
    `false`, an error will be thrown. When `IsAveraged` is set to `true`
    and the `Name` references a future contract that is averaging, it is
    understood that the commodity leg is to use the same averaging as
    the future contract. In this case, we switch to a non-averaging
    cashflow in the code and read the averaged price directly off the
    price curve that we have set up using the averaging future contract
    prices.

In some cases, we will only have an averaging future contract available
as an allowable `Name` value. For example, `NYMEX:A7Q` is one such
instance. The contract details are given
[here](https://www.cmegroup.com/trading/energy/petrochemicals/mont-belvieu-natural-gasoline-5-decimal-opis-swap_contract_specifications.html).
This future contract’s price at the end of each contract month is the
*arithmetic average of the OPIS Mt. Belvieu Natural Gasoline (non-LDH)
price for each business day during the contract month*. The
corresponding commodity floating leg would be set up with `Name` set to
`NYMEX:A7Q` and `IsAveraged` set to `true`. Again, for the avoidance of
doubt, we are not averaging the averaging future contract price.
Instead, we switch to a non-averaging cashflow in the code and read the
averaged price directly off the price curve that we have built out of
`NYMEX:A7Q` future contract prices. We are pricing a leg that has the
same payoff as the future contract.

If we have an averaging coupon and the valuation date is during the
coupon period, the choice between the first and second approach above
will have an effect on the sensitivities that are generated for that one
single coupon. It should not affect the NPV of the coupon. The effect
becomes more pronounced as the number of days remaining in the coupon
period reduce. In the first approach, the coupon is priced by reading
the expected future prices on future *Pricing Date*s off the
non-averaging future price curve and fetching past fixed settlement
prices on past *Pricing Date*s. All of these prices are then averaged.
It is clear that as the valuation date approaches the final date in the
coupon period, the sensitivity decreases because any bump in the curve
used for pricing is only affecting the values on the remaining future
*Pricing Date*s. In the second approach, the average price relevant for
the full coupon period is read directly off the averaging future price
curve. Any bump to the averaging future price curve affects the full
coupon regardless of the position of the valuation date in the coupon
period. The sensitivity will therefore be larger than using the first
approach and the difference will become more noticeable as the valuation
date moves towards the end of the coupon period. This subtlety can lead
to differences that are larger than expected on basis swaps with
averaging coupons and short maturities. If one commodity floating leg
references a non-averaging price curve and the other leg references an
averaging price curve, the differing effects of the bump outlined above
on each leg can lead to a larger than expected net sensitivity.

<div id="tab:comm_ex_swap_schedule">

| Start Date |  End Date  | Quantity Per Period |
|:----------:|:----------:|:-------------------:|
| 2019-09-01 | 2019-09-30 |        5,000        |
| 2019-10-01 | 2019-10-31 |        5,000        |

Example commodity swap schedule.

</div>

<div class="listing">

``` xml
<LegData>
  <LegType>CommodityFloating</LegType>
  <Payer>true</Payer>
  <Currency>USD</Currency>
  <PaymentLag>2</PaymentLag>
  <PaymentConvention>Following</PaymentConvention>
  <PaymentCalendar>US-NYSE</PaymentCalendar>
  <CommodityFloatingLegData>
    <Name>NYMEX:CL</Name>
    <PriceType>FutureSettlement</PriceType>
    <Quantities>
      <Quantity>5000</Quantity>
    </Quantities>
    <IsAveraged>true</IsAveraged>
    <FutureMonthOffset>0</FutureMonthOffset>
  </CommodityFloatingLegData>
  <ScheduleData>
    <Rules>
      <StartDate>2019-09-01</StartDate>
      <EndDate>2019-10-31</EndDate>
      <Tenor>1M</Tenor>
      <Calendar>NullCalendar</Calendar>
      <Convention>Unadjusted</Convention>
      <TermConvention>Unadjusted</TermConvention>
      <Rule>Backward</Rule>
      <EndOfMonth>true</EndOfMonth>
    </Rules>
  </ScheduleData>
</LegData>
```

</div>

<div class="listing">

``` xml
<CommodityFloatingLegData>
<Name>NYMEX:CSX</Name>
<PriceType>FutureSettlement</PriceType>
<Quantities>
  <Quantity>5000</Quantity>
</Quantities>
<IsAveraged>true</IsAveraged>
<FutureMonthOffset>0</FutureMonthOffset>
</CommodityFloatingLegData>
```

</div>
